[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory, and
our special guest today
is Jim Self.
Jim is an international
teacher, speaker, author.
He's been teaching healing and
clairvoyance of personal energy
since 1980.
He is a former advisor to the
former President Jimmy Carter
and also the co-author
of an interactive book
called "A Course In
Mastering Alchemy."
Welcome to the program, Jim.
It's good to have you.
>>JIM SELF: George, my
pleasure to be with you.
>>NOORY: We have heard so
much about you and what
you've done for individuals.
Absolutely remarkable.
How did you get into this field?
I mean, here's a former
advisor to a president.
How are you doing
these spiritual things
all of a sudden, and
self help things?
>>SELF: You know, the spiritual
thing has been my life.
I kind of came into the body
with this whole purpose.
And then like everybody,
you pass through a journey.
And you have ups and downs
and interesting little side
events that happen.
The political
aspect was something
that was a passion
in terms of, how
do you help people live their
lives in a comfortable manner?
And to a great extent, the
whole political process
was a disappointment,
because the system
doesn't support people.
The system is about the system.
And so you're watching that
whole process very much
begin to unravel today in
this shifting transition
that we're finding
ourselves in spiritually.
>>NOORY: Are you noticing
that people generally
are trying desperately to better
themselves in this environment?
>>SELF: Yeah, absolutely.
But one of the things
you're watching
is up until now, the average
person walking on the street
has been unconscious
of being unconscious.
They just live their lives.
They just move around
in their lives.
>>NOORY: They're
like little robots.
>>SELF: To a great extent.
And one of the reasons
is because-- have
you ever played a
game and you didn't
know the rules to the game?
>>NOORY: And I don't like that.
>>SELF: No.
>>NOORY: I don't like
playing games like that.
>>SELF: Well, neither
does the average person.
But if you look at
it, they're kind of
stuck in the money game and the
employment game and the family
game.
But as this shift
of consciousness
is now unfolding,
what you're finding
is you can no longer
play in that game.
That game is coming to an end,
that third dimensional game
of domination, greed,
imposition, competition,
advantage.
That positioning me
better than you experience
is what's really kept
the common person
in a state of unconsciousness.
>>NOORY: It's almost as if
he's had his thumb put on him.
>>SELF: Very much.
But there's a reason for that.
This whole, on a
spiritual level,
there was once a period
of time where there was
the fall of consciousness came.
Just keep that real simple.
In that process, there began
to be splintering of concepts.
In the realm of
consciousness we play in,
it's a realm of
form and density.
And so it was a wonderful game.
The consciousness
went from nonphysical
into a physical state.
But as it began to get more
dense as part of the process,
there began to be splinters
and fractures in the system.
And the game fractured
at one point to the place
where something more
significant had to be created.
And that creation was
a very rigid structure
so that everything
didn't go extinct
in a manner of speaking.
And in that process, people
have been really suspended
in an unconscious
space for a long time.
Lots of aspects of
your spiritual ability
have really been
separated from you.
Mental, emotional body was
meant to be one body, not two.
And this whole process of
how you play in dimensions.
If you don't know the
rules, you don't end up
in a pretty good
space, and that's
kind of where
we're playing today
is unraveling from
that unconsciousness.
>>NOORY: So Jim,
this change that you
are sensing with people,
the shift, let's say,
in consciousness, what
has been fueling that?
Why is it happening now?
>>SELF: Well, it's
a spiritual shift.
And in a way, you're going
from a state of that domination
unconsciousness to a
state of well being.
But what you're
seeing happening is
you're seeing everybody
begin to wake up.
And in one aspect
of that waking up,
people don't like
what they're seeing.
And so there's this
level of frustration
that's beginning to
come to the surface.
>>NOORY: I see it in
road rage incidents.
>>SELF: In lots
of ways, exactly.
There's maybe two
sides of it, though.
There is one side of it
where everybody is waking up
and they're going
into more fear.
It's like, I have
my status quo, I
have my income I
have my fixed place,
and I'm uncomfortable
because it's
like shifting sands
underneath them.
And so they're digging
in their heels.
There's a whole other
aspect of people
that are beginning to wake
up and recognize what I've
been experiencing is not OK.
For example, the MeToo movement.
They have just been--
people have been suppressed
in situations where they've had
to take that state of being.
>>NOORY: That situation.
>>SELF: And now
it's like, no more.
And so you're seeing it
with Black Lives Matter.
You're seeing it with
people all over the world.
They're waking up
and they're saying,
this is no longer acceptable.
>>NOORY: How much, Jim, has
social media contributed
to the explosion of
things like that?
>>SELF: Significant.
It's all of a sudden
there's people finding out
there's other people like me
and people who think like me.
>>NOORY: And they share it.
>>SELF: And they share it.
Social media is a
plus and a minus.
It's got negative consequences.
All of the fake news
type of concept,
the misinformation
that's out there.
But you're shifting from a
place where you are waking up.
And one of the key
pieces to it is
you can't take your baggage
with you on this journey.
And that's the piece that I'm
most interested in talking
to people about.
>>NOORY: If social media were
gone, it's just all gone.
>>SELF: People would
still be waking up.
>>NOORY: They would?
>>SELF: They'd
still be waking up.
>>NOORY: Not at the same pace.
>>SELF: Oh, I think so.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>SELF: I think the
pace of waking up
is not the pace of social media.
The challenge with
social media is--
let me step back a little bit.
In the game that we play, we are
taught that what they think out
there is how I live my life
in terms of OK or not OK.
So if I position myself
well, you will like me.
And so to a great
extent, our nature is,
will they approve of me?
Am I OK by the
whoever the they are?
But what's starting
to happen is people
are starting to
wake up and begin
to have a sense of themselves.
So people are
beginning to want more.
The challenge with social media
is it's a very hollow space.
To a great extent--
>>NOORY: Extremely hollow.
>>SELF: The person is
not being validated.
The person is going
to the outside world
and saying, look at me.
Am I OK?
>>NOORY: Well, you're
absolutely right.
Because, I mean, nowadays,
and I'm gonna cite an example.
A lady posted from St.
Louis a couple of days ago,
she's having problems
with her husband.
And she is airing all
her laundry on Facebook.
>>SELF: Exactly.
>>NOORY: And I've got friends
that are calling me saying,
you've got to look at this.
This is unbelievable.
I mean, she's talking about
all the horrendous things
that are happening in her
life, in her relationship.
I've never seen this before.
>>SELF: Yeah.
See, it's all got to come out.
In this journey, you can't
take your baggage with you.
So all of the baggage that says,
I'm not OK, I'm not attractive,
I don't fit, I'm not going to
succeed, all of those things.
When you really
think about that,
what happens is a person growing
up is exploring their life.
They're trying to
figure things out.
And the mom, dad,
teacher, minister
of the world all of a sudden
says, I have a gift for you.
You're not OK.
How dare you?
What's wrong with you?
Why do you do that?
And what we do is we
unconsciously accept the gift,
and then we begin to ask the
worst question you can ask.
What's wrong with me?
What did I do wrong?
In real terms, that was
somebody else's bad lifetime
in that moment just
vomiting all over you.
But we accept it,
hold onto it, and then
for the rest of our life
figure out what did I do wrong?
Why am I not successful?
What all of that is beginning
to come to the surface.
And this is why I
say you can't take
your baggage on this journey
into this fifth dimensional
state of well being.
>>NOORY: There is a channeler
by the name of Lee Harris, who
appeared on Gaia's "Open Minds"
to talk about this shift.
>>SELF: Yes.
>>LEE HARRIS:
Higher consciousness
has become higher,
meaning so many
of you in the past decade
or two have ascended
much of your own
personal density,
meaning the next levels
of higher consciousness
are now hitting the planet.
Many of you will
have experienced
a temporal hold on consciousness
in some ways between 2012
and 2016.
And now as you move
into the 2017 to 2025
period, what we would
call golden consciousness
is hitting the earth.
Far from the seductive
name it sounds to be,
it is quite destructive,
for it will destroy density
at faster rates, which is
why at a planetary level,
you are seeing this take
place, and at personal levels,
those of you who had long felt
what you would call awake,
alive, ascended are finding
that suddenly the speed is
increasing all over
again and you are going
deeper and further
out than humans
have for a very long time.
For we will say
that back in time,
humans were able to go very
far for a short period of time,
before what you would know as
the energetic clamp got put
onto the mindset and the
energy field of humanity.
That clamp, which is
now in an almighty
battle to restore itself.
Not necessarily for the
purposes of humanity,
but instead for the
purposes of the universe.
>>NOORY: Jim, do
you agree with him?
>>SELF: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
That message is
completely right on.
Lee does a really good
job with his work.
But what is being said is,
here's this change coming.
And the change is
going to take us
into a state of well being
that is not something you can--
the average person can
conceive of at this point.
Technological changes,
biological changes.
Changes in
consciousness are going
to be extreme in terms of very,
very positive, amazing things.
However, you can't take
your baggage with you
on this journey.
So this wave that Lee's
talking about here
is basically a
wave of dislocating
a lot of your junk, that belief
system that says I'm not OK.
Now, that mental,
emotional process
is one of the consequences
of the fall of consciousness.
The mental and emotional
body got separated.
So in a way, you have a thought,
and it's an unmanaged thought.
Something jumps up in front of
you and you go, this is not OK.
But immediately, I'm really
angry comes and combines
with that thought.
And you get a reactionary
impulse that screams or yells
or whatever.
That's going to
change very quickly.
>>NOORY: Is this shift affecting
anything on the planet?
>>SELF: It's
affecting everything
on the planet, in the
solar system, in the sun,
but mostly you.
>>NOORY: When you say in the
sun, what do you mean by that?
>>SELF: See, this is an
interesting thing that goes on.
The sun is beginning
to be understood.
Scientifically, it's
beginning to be understood.
>>NOORY: I mean, we just
sent a probe to the sun.
>>SELF: Oh, yeah, but--
>>NOORY: Truly remarkable.
>>SELF: Remarkable.
But what's more
remarkable is when
you understand
that sunspots have
negative and positive
polarities and they
create these solar flares.
Those positive,
negative polarities
and the motion in the
sunspots is directly related
to the high and low pressure
situation on the earth.
The electrical blast
of those solar winds
relates to the
electrical lightning
that's going on every minute
of the day on the Earth.
>>NOORY: Might it also
reflect the consciousness
and the mood of people?
>>SELF: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Somehow it's
sucking that energy in?
>>SELF: So when you begin to
look at thoughts are electrical
and emotions are magnetic
and one of the things that's
beginning to happen
is, not only are
the poles as you shifting
into different positions,
but the magnetic intensity
of the field around the Earth
is decreasing significantly.
And the magnetic field
is, to a great extent,
what holds emotional structure
in the physical body.
So as that begins to
lessen and lessen,
you're starting to
see this cosmic rays
processed transitioned
through the sun
and then produced
back on the Earth.
You're seeing
changes in the Earth,
but you're seeing changes in
the mental, emotional state
of human beings.
>>NOORY: Jim, what is the
fall of consciousness?
What does that mean?
>>SELF: So, if you
were to say it really--
it's an amazing story.
But the simpleness
is the creator wished
to know itself at one point.
And so I'm paraphrasing.
Reached into itself
and created a handful
of creator gods, small g.
Beings in the light that went
out and were told to create.
But in that process in their
creation, some of those beings
began to enjoy their creative
nature more than using
the light of the creation.
And so they began to
create these wobbles.
Now, they weren't bad beings.
There was no war.
There was no bad angel.
>>NOORY: Are these
the fallen ones?
>>SELF: Well, that's what
the system would call them.
>>NOORY: The system would.
The Bible would.
>>SELF: But they're
the ones that
basically started using their
light to create realities.
And without the
light of the creator,
there began to be
mutations and distortions.
And those mutations
and distortions
started working their
way into the density,
as you began to get more
and more dense, all part
of the experiment of creation.
There began to be
kind of wobbles
that we would call anger,
rage, jealousy, resentment.
And so--
>>NOORY: That they
passed onto us.
>>SELF: They passed on to us.
So in that process when the--
my example would be it
would be like a chemistry
lab was an experiment, and all
of a sudden, the experiment
blew up.
Well, in order to keep the
fire from consuming everything,
in my analogy, they
shut down the lab.
But many great beings
of consciousness
are still in that lab.
You and I are in that lab.
And so the process of
the game now of the lab,
because creation said, well,
let's see how this works.
And so you started to get
a third dimensional state.
Everything has rules
and structures.
Third dimension has
rules and structures.
And so, again, going
back to the question of
have you ever played a game
without knowing the rules.
Third dimension is all about
duality, good, bad, right,
wrong, separation, but it's
about one thing in particular
that is seen as an
absolute, and that's time.
See, time, if you ask
100 people on the street,
is time, what it is, they'll
tell you past, present, future,
then you die.
But for the most part,
time in the third dimension
is not present at all.
It's in, oh, I hope
I didn't do it wrong
and it won't affect
me in the future.
Or I hope they never find
out, so I'm going to change.
And when you get into
that little sliver
of third dimensional present
time, it's reactionary.
It doesn't have choice.
Meaning, oh my god, this
wasn't supposed to happen.
Third dimensional present time.
But time is an application.
It's not a fixed concept.
So as you and I
both know, when you
start to get into present
time, like right here
we're in present time.
We're not thinking
about lunch or dinner.
Right here we are present.
In fourth dimension, which
is a nonphysical dimension,
you play in thought form
to a great extent in there.
But fourth dimension
has present time.
There's no past,
there is no future.
>>NOORY: There is
no past or future.
>>SELF: In that present time
moment, you have choice.
Where in third dimension,
you have reaction.
But you also have
something that's
so important to this shift.
You have an odd
word called paradox,
which simply means what was
true a minute ago may not
be true now.
And what was false
may not be false.
So in third
dimension, when I say,
well, I know that
person over there.
They're bad.
They're never going to be good.
They're always.
Very rigid structures.
But 20 years later
somebody shows up
on my porch that stole money
from me a long time ago.
Third dimensionally,
I can say, I know you.
Get off my porch.
But in this fifth
dimensional space
we're stepping into, well
being, fourth dimension also, I
look at you and I
realize the history,
but I allow the opportunity for
you to be different paradox.
That's the mechanism
that everybody
is going to start to recognize.
I stole the candy bar
when I was five years old,
and I'm a bad person.
Well, at 45, would you
like to bring that concept
into present time and look at
it, and is it really still--
>>NOORY: And you're a
different person now.
>>SELF: Something you want to
hold yourself accountable for.
That's the baggage that
is being purged out
of everybody's space.
That comment that Lee
made that this is not
going to be a joyful transition,
this golden light that's
coming in.
It's not destructive,
but it is disruptive.
It's not a destruction,
but it is causing--
>>NOORY: Is the disruption good?
>>SELF: Well, it's
causing your status quo,
how I hold onto my not
OK-ness, to be disrupted.
You can't take your baggage
with you on this journey.
And so if a person
began to understand
that there are tools and
means of managing yourself,
you would be able to perceive
the world differently.
>>NOORY: Why did the
big G, the big God,
allow the little g's to do what
they had to do and not fix it
from the get go?
>>SELF: Because
it wasn't broken.
So it's an experience
of creation.
See, third dimension,
you would say bad, good.
But in the concept of creation,
it's just an experience.
So when you can--
as you evolving into an
ascending, evolving creator
being, you George, me
Jim, evolving into that,
there really aren't failures.
There are just things
that are, oops,
that didn't work real well.
So now think about it.
If you can step back and
say oops to something.
How do I deal with this?
There's a lot of fluidity,
mobility, flexibility
to deal with that circumstance.
But if it's, oh my
god, this isn't good,
then it's very rigid,
and there's not
a lot of choice in how
do you resolve something.
>>NOORY: Who are the
teachers of light?
>>SELF: The teachers of
light are, to great extent,
these beings that didn't fall
in the fall of consciousness,
which is 99.999% of everything.
This fall is a very
little experience.
>>NOORY: It is.
>>SELF: Very small.
>>NOORY: But the Bible makes
it seem like it's everything.
>>SELF: Well, the Bible only
knows what the Bible knows.
I don't mean that
disrespectfully.
>>NOORY: No, I understand.
>>SELF: But what happens
is the story has basically
been created from that fall of
consciousness got very rigid.
There's an aspect
when they had to stop
the fall, that everything
would have been dismantled,
destroyed, gone.
So in a way, they created,
let's call it a box.
And the box was filled with
cement, and everybody in it
was caught.
>>NOORY: OK.
Stuck.
>>SELF: Stuck.
But as evolution went on, as
creator, as all the beings
that weren't in it,
wanted to resolve this,
they applied something.
They began to apply the
feminine nature of the creator.
Now, here this is a big
masculine, feminine.
It's not about bodies.
It's not about men are from
Mars, women are from Venus.
Feminine energy has no
straight lines or angles.
It's swirls and it's motion.
It's what if, I
wonder, how could we.
No angles.
Straight lines and
angles are masculine.
Very much structure.
So the feminine says, gee,
I wonder how we do this.
And the masculine side of
you says, we can do this.
I can build this.
I can make this happen.
In that fall of
consciousness, the feminine
was brought in first to
nurture, to fertilize, to grow.
But as it began to loosen
up, the masculine side
was dominated by the feminine.
I'm going to fix this.
As it loosened up, the
masculine side got really angry
and overtook the feminine side.
And basically, if you look at
the Bible, you look at history,
look at the Middle East, you
see those really fundamental
positions.
Not making them right or wrong.
But they only know
what they know,
and it's that anger and rage.
And it's very much
dominating and feminine is
submissive or not even valued.
>>NOORY: Are we the world around
us or is the world what we are?
>>SELF: We believe that I
am a result of the world.
I look for you to like me.
I look for my safety based
on what they say out there.
So the average
person walking around
is very consumed with how
they relate to others.
But what's--
>>NOORY: Too much so?
>>SELF: Too much so.
Because I give up
my seniority to you.
The mom, dad, teacher,
minister say, you're bad.
You didn't do it right.
You're not OK.
You'll never succeed.
And I accept that and
then ask the question,
what's wrong with me?
When in fact, nothing's
wrong with me at all.
I was just trying
to figure it out.
So this shift is
in process to where
if you began to understand how
you can navigate this shift,
you would navigate
it very differently.
You hear people say, well,
my space and your space.
Well, what is that?
>>NOORY: It's our space, right?
>>SELF: Well yeah, but sometimes
people step into my space.
And I withdraw.
I pull back.
So if you were able to have
an understanding of that,
and I'll give you a
simple tool that we
teach in the course of
mastering alchemy is basically
if you knew--
the edge of your aura starts--
if you put your arms
straight out in front of you
and put your palm towards you,
your aura basically all the way
around you at that position.
>>NOORY: Like this?
>>SELF: Yep.
And over.
But if you were able to
create a point of delineation,
meaning you know what
a rose looks like.
So let's create an
image of a rose.
And I'm going to put that
right on the edge of my aura.
And I'm going to
make a decision.
From here to my heart is me.
And everything out there
is Shakespeare's theater
to entertain me.
And if I could stay on
my side and the game
is stay on your side, all
of a sudden you being angry
or they being upset
over there begins
to be something that
doesn't have to affect me.
But without that
point of delineation,
not knowing where I
kind of start and stop
in a manner of speaking,
when that person gets upset,
I become the effect of
it, whether they're really
looking me--
I get upset when other
people around me get upset.
You begin to recognize that this
is me and that's the theater.
The ability to manage
yourself with choice
begins to be black and white.
All of sudden, you
realize all of that
has nothing to do with me.
>>NOORY: At all.
>>SELF: At all.
It's the theater passing by.
It's all of those
people and they're
play acting out in their play.
I am just a bypasser
in their play.
As you moved through life and
you think about all the things
that you hold yourself
hostage to, if you could look
at those movies, you'd
realize you were just
walking through somebody's
play more often than not.
And you made a decision.
Oh, I interfered with them.
I didn't do it right.
I was bad.
That's the baggage
that's got to come out.
>>NOORY: Can we
rewrite the play?
>>SELF: Absolutely.
See, one of the
things when you get
into present time, that fourth
dimensional, fifth dimensional
space, and you recognize choice,
what happens is my past--
in third dimension, I did this.
That's the truth.
My mother died.
She didn't like me, and
I'm a consequence of that.
But here when you basically
get into present time
and you look at your
past, it's simply
history as far as information.
What we do is we say,
oh, my husband, wife
died 20 years ago, and I'm sad.
If you really look
at it, emotions
are only experienced
in the present moment.
And so in that place
where you have a thought
and you immediately
unconsciously bind
an emotion, that
event is my husband,
wife died 20 years ago.
It's a piece of information.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>SELF: The emotion is
what you choose to add
to that piece of information.
So if you could manage
yourself in a way
to where you can
look at your history
and then ask the question,
does this have value to me?
You're going to find
that most of what
we call memory is something
we hold in our space
as a past event is going
to simply evaporate
from your reality.
>>NOORY: Jim, what do they
mean by rewiring the brain?
>>SELF: So when in all
the work that we do,
when you start to
manage yourself
on this side of your rose, as
an example, you become grounded.
You begin to look
through your eyes
from the center of your head.
And you begin to open the heart.
You start to begin to recognize
that I am in the world,
but I am not of that world.
You begin to choose
your engagement.
>>NOORY: It's your own world.
>>SELF: And so then
one of the things
that has been made available
is we know the word chakras.
It's amazing to me
that chakras work--
we work as well as we do.
Those lower four chakras are
fragmented, broken, shut down,
to a great extent.
But one of the newer
pieces of information
is you can rearrange
these upper chakras
into a different
configuration that
allows you to start to step
into that unified field
of consciousness, all that is.
It's in that place that you
start to remember yourself.
And it's in the
remembering yourself
you begin to remember how
to put you back together.
There's something
in the head that--
there's something referred
to as the eye of Horus.
The eye of Horus is not a
necklace or a mystery school.
The eye of Horus is
a very specific set
of connections in the brain.
>>NOORY: In the brain.
And we all have that.
>>SELF: Everybody has it.
And so when you begin to play
with this reconfiguration
of these upper
chakras and you start
to activate that
eye of Horus, one
of the really valuable
things that happens
is what people call psychic
abilities or spiritual ability,
clairvoyance, clairsentience,
telepathy, clairaudience.
That eye of Horus begins to
bring them into a functioning
role and allows you
to start to perceive
your reality from that space.
I don't mean picking
lottery tickets.
I simply mean you
begin to see a reality
that if I do this two
weeks out in front of me,
here is the result of that.
You begin to find that
things like telepathy
of great value, that place where
people finish other people's
sentences.
That's just narrow
band telepathy.
And people say, well, it's an
embarrassing, it's a bad thing.
Well, not really.
If you can begin to know what's
the next set of thoughts,
the next sentence, the next
concept that somebody's
going to have--
>>NOORY: Oh my gosh.
You're way ahead of the game.
>>SELF: --you can basically
say, what if we did this?
Would this make it
simpler in your life?
>>NOORY: Dr. Joe Dispenza talked
about rewiring the brain as
well and how it affects reality.
>>JOE DISPENZA: So then
as the environment turns
on different circuits
in your brain,
you begin to think equal
to your environment.
As you see the same people
and go to the same places
and do the same things
at the same time,
it's the external
environment that's
turning on different
circuits in your brain,
causing you to think equal
to everything that you know.
And as long as you think
equal to everything
that's familiar or
known to you, what
do you keep creating more of?
The same life.
Now, the quantum law is
still applying to you.
You're just thinking equal
to everything that you know.
And you keep creating
more of the same.
To change, to truly
change, is to think greater
than your environment.
And every great person
in history knew this.
Whether it was William
Wallace or Mahatma Gandhi
or Martin Luther King or Queen
Elizabeth I or Joan of Arc,
they all had a vision.
They all had an idea.
Couldn't see it, couldn't
smell it, couldn't taste it,
couldn't feel it.
But it was alive in their mind.
It was so alive in
their mind that they
began to live as if that reality
was actually happening now.
So can you believe
in a future that you
can't see or experience
with your senses yet
but you've thought about
enough times in your mind
that your brain is
literally changed
to look like the event
has already happened?
Neuroscience says it's
absolutely possible.
>>NOORY: He's right.
>>SELF: He's absolutely right.
So if you think it is or you
think it isn't, you're correct.
So one of the
things that happens
with this is as you start
to get into this space
of present time, as you
begin to define your space,
as you begin to
recognize that's theater
but it's not my theater, you
begin to turn on the chakras.
You begin to change
aspects of yourself.
One of the things that's going
to be understood going forward
is time and space are one thing.
They're not two.
And when you get
into present time
and you begin to sit in present
time, everything comes to you.
You don't have to go out
there to find your reality.
And it's just like Joe's saying.
If I can imagine
it, I can create it.
You're going to find
in this shifting times
that we're in something that
is being very obvious now
called AI intelligence.
It is being received in a
technological manner in terms
of instruments
and the technology
we live in the external world.
But that AI intelligence
is an aspect
of how the soul perceives
itself in the larger
scope of the universe.
One of the choices that is
coming about is, in a way,
there's a whole new human
species being created.
And that human species
is going to begin
to understand that
I am absolutely
the center of everything.
It's as if we could take
you and put you in space
in a little bubble in a chair.
And surrounding you was
thousands of television sets,
in a manner of speaking.
The law of attraction
is absolutely flawless.
What you put your
attention on is
what you experience or
create for yourself.
In that space of sitting in
that little bubble, as you
begin to think a thought, one
of those televisions lights up.
And if you hold that thought,
the law of attraction
is going to start to
pull that reality more
and more into your space.
As the brain shifts,
as the consciousness
shifts, the ability to basically
know yourself in ways that you
can't even imagine right now.
>>NOORY: Will this happen
automatically, Jim,
or do people have
to be aware of this?
>>SELF: It's happening.
>>NOORY: For this shift.
But there's kind of two
stratas of consciousness
that are unfolding.
There's the strata
of consciousness
where those that are terrified
and digging in their heels
and arguing for their
limitations, the ones that
think war is necessary in order
to keep domination and control,
that's kind of becoming
a strata of consciousness
that that attractively that
mindset is drawing to itself.
But there is another
law, another strata
of consciousness,
of those waking up.
Those that are beginning
to understand well being
is about respect, dignity,
appreciation, gratitude,
humility, kindness,
laughter, co-creation.
See, that's a place where
you and I and so many
others listening to
the show are living.
They know there is a better way.
And in their heart,
they would rather
align with well being and
kindness than this place
of domination and imposition.
And so in a way,
you're beginning
to see two Earths starting
to create into two stratas.
>>NOORY: Do these two Earths
technically collide one day?
>>SELF: They will eventually.
This Earth of war, domination
will begin to burn itself out.
And that level of
consciousness will be right
where we are today,
saying this is too much.
There's got to be another way.
And the minute they begin
to ask that question,
that level of light begins to
open up again in the heart.
And they'll ease
their way out of it.
But there'll be two
stratas for quite a while.
There was a long period where
we hoped that it would just
be one Earth.
>>NOORY: How many different
layers are out there?
>>SELF: Layers?
>>NOORY: In terms
of what we think
are different layers
of consciousness.
>>SELF: Well, let me answer
that slightly differently.
What layer of thought
are you perceiving from?
And that's slightly different.
See, we think in
different layers.
And so if you think in let's
call a third dimensional layer,
the world.
>>NOORY: Explain that.
>>SELF: So you have an
aspect where I need this
and I want this and oh, this
has got to work this way.
>>NOORY: I to have it.
>>SELF: The have to
is the leaning into.
So let's call that the
third layer of thought where
there's emotions and needs.
Fourth layer of thought,
let's call it pondering,
where we just think and say,
gee, I wonder how that works.
This could be interesting.
But you don't really
need the answer.
You're just allowing it to gel.
In that space is where most
of us are starting to move.
The place where you realize,
I don't need to go to,
and all of a sudden--
>>NOORY: Just let it happen.
>>SELF: Everything
begins to happen.
Something very magical
happens in that space also.
You begin to realize
that the answer lies
where the question is asked.
In that third layer,
I need moves me away
from where I'm
asking the question.
In that pondering, I wonder how
this works, how many times have
you go, oh, I got it.
The answer lies always right
where the question is asked.
We move away.
In this fourth layer, you
begin to allow the possibility
of everything to come to you.
>>NOORY: How many
layers are there?
>>SELF: I'm going to say
for this discussion seven.
>>NOORY: Seven layers?
>>SELF: Yeah.
So the fifth layer is where you
go into a layer of awareness.
You hear words, but you're
not thinking thoughts.
A sixth layer is
more complicated.
It's a place where you
don't think a thought,
and there's no movement.
I say apple.
You don't move to, oh,
I know what an apple is.
It just begins to be
a vibrational field
of consciousness.
That's a place that everything's
about to go to and change.
But it's the seventh
layer where you
think in alignment with the
thought that thought you
into creation.
You and that thought
of soul are one.
>>NOORY: That's very powerful.
>>SELF: That's
extremely powerful.
But it's not a gift,
in terms of you
don't just automatically
go, I want that.
It is that rewiring,
remembering,
realigning yourself
and then becoming aware
of the next level
of consciousness
and then absorbing
and remembering
who you've always been.
But in this fallen state
of separation duality,
we've lost track of ourselves.
>>NOORY: Is there a
layer that's better
than the other of the
seven you mentioned,
or are they all the same?
>>SELF: No, they're all
transitional processes
that we go through.
>>NOORY: You need them all.
>>SELF: Yes.
But you can, as you
begin to understand
managing your energy,
managing yourself, choosing
a reality, you basically move
in and out of those layers
of thought at will.
But it starts from being
here and observing and being
conscious of yourself.
>>NOORY: Explain, and we'll
look at a clip in a second,
but what is neuroplasticity?
>>SELF: It's really how the
brain is all put together
in such a way that,
just like Joe said,
if you think these
thoughts and you
accept your environment, that's
pretty much the game you play.
>>NOORY: How important
is that to what we're
talking about today?
>>SELF: It's everything.
It's about the ability to
change your point of attention
and begin to draw to
you what you would like
to have happen rather than
accepting the world that
shows up on your
doorstep every morning.
>>NOORY: Let's go back
to school and look
at a course on neuroplasticity.
>>NARRATOR: Not so long
ago, many scientists
believed that the brain did not
change after childhood, that it
was hardwired and fixed by
the time we became adults.
But recent advances in
only the last decade
now tell us that this
is simply not true.
The brain can and does
change throughout our lives.
It is adaptable, like plastic.
Hence, neuroscientists
call this neuroplasticity.
How does neuroplasticity work?
If you think of your brain as a
dynamic, connected power grid,
there are billions
of pathways or roads
lighting up every time you
think, feel, or do something.
Some of these roads
are well traveled.
These are our habits, our
established ways of thinking,
feeling, and doing.
Every time we think
in a certain way,
practice a particular task,
or feel a specific emotion,
we strengthen this road.
It becomes easier for our
brains to travel this pathway.
So we think about something
differently, learn a new task,
or choose a different emotion.
We start carving out a new road.
If we keep traveling
that road, our brains
begin to use this pathway
more and this new way
of thinking, feeling, or
doing becomes second nature.
The old pathway gets used
less and less and weakens.
This process of
rewiring your brain
by forming new connections
and weakening old ones
is neuroplasticity in action.
The good news is that we all
have the ability to learn
and change by
rewiring our brains.
If you have ever
changed a bad habit
or thought about
something differently,
you have caused a
pathway in your brain
and experienced
neuroplasticity firsthand.
With repeated and directed
attention towards your desired
change, you can
rewire your brain.
>>NOORY: Is that
pretty accurate?
>>SELF: Absolutely accurate.
And the key to that was
changing your thoughts
and changing your emotions.
And so when you begin to
think different thoughts
and begin to think different
emotions or feelings--
I'm going to distinguish
between the two--
you start to create
a different reality.
Now, this shift
of consciousness,
as we talked about a moment
ago with the magnetic fields
and magnetic poles of the
Earth, shifting around.
>>NOORY: And they are shifting.
>>SELF: And they are
shifting very rapidly.
The emotional body
is very magnetic.
And so as that
emotional alignment
begins to shift in the body,
the ability to rewire the brain,
the ability to turn it back on.
Because it's not so much
building the new brain.
It's really putting the old one
that's been disconnected back
into a place.
And so you're going to start
to find this how you think
and how you hold your
emotions being very specific.
See, there's a
challenge, though.
And that's the
rational mind, the one
we generally think with.
Its job is to keep
you safe and have
you fit in that third
dimensional space of approval.
And so soon as you start
to wander from a place that
is routinely hardwired
into how I run my life,
the rational mind goes,
whoa, are you sure?
This isn't good.
They may not like you.
And so that space of that
fourth dimensional present time
space where you allow choice
to begin to come and play
is a really big deal.
But the rational mind
also did something
in this fall of consciousness
that's now beginning
to be more understood.
The rational mind
created emotion.
It needed to navigate, and it
needed to determine, am I safe
and do I fit in with
those over there?
That one seems angry.
So it created a relationship,
a map that we call emotions,
to a large extent.
And a great amount
of those emotions
are vibrations that have edges.
So when you think about a word
like jealousy, resentment,
anger, rage, there's edges.
You think about appreciation,
gratitude, certainty, kindness,
capable, there's no
edges on those words.
And so the heart
thinks from feelings.
The rational mind
thinks from emotion.
So as a person begins to get
into this present time state
and begins to observe
that I'm in this world
but not of that world, the
ability for the neuroplasticity
to begin to actually
happen quickly
begins to become more
remarkable and easy.
>>NOORY: For those people
who can understand this,
truly understand it, what
does it do for their life?
>>SELF: It allows you to watch
events that you had in the past
got upset with and then
sat and spin for weeks.
Why'd they do that?
To basically recognize
this is not about me.
And in some cases, it gives
you, particularly when
you begin to be into the space
where you think from the heart
and you perceive and
this eye of Horus
turns back on, the ability
to recognize that somebody
is in a lot of pain.
It's pain talking.
It's not somebody-- it's
not that person talking.
And sometimes you're able
to just watch and watch.
And when that person
becomes absolutely
at their most vulnerable is
when you reach out and say,
can I be of assistance?
>>NOORY: Is that what happens
with like suicide victims?
They're in so much
pain, emotional pain,
and people don't read them.
They don't understand.
>>SELF: Yeah.
I used to say one
thing about suicide,
and it's never your idea.
It's somebody says you're
so bad, you're so bad,
you're so bad.
You just simply shut off
all your opportunities
to negate that.
But now it's getting
to be very interesting,
because that part's still true.
But what I watch in people
who are committing suicide
is the vibrational frequency
of this distraction,
this noise of you
can't take your baggage
with you is rising up so
much that people just simply
can't take it anymore.
>>NOORY: Why is that?
>>SELF: Think about the person
on the street that basically
lost their home in 2008.
They lost their marriage
because they couldn't any longer
pay for their home.
Their kids are now
very upset because they
can't go to the schools.
And all of a sudden
you're watching this--
>>NOORY: And they blame
you for it, right?
>>SELF: The circumstances
that the nature
of how the world has gotten.
This level of where we give
so much power to money,
that level of power to
money, the I have to have
negates my humanity towards you.
If I can make money
here, I don't really
have to be obligated
to you, to you.
Here it's because
of that structure.
But when all of a sudden you
watch things like 9/11 happen
and New Yorkers with their
whatever their style is.
They took the shirts off their
back to help one another.
>>NOORY: I was just
gonna ask you about 9/11.
Because was it
normal and natural
for people to go through
this horror when it happened?
>>SELF: When there is a
disruption of this nature,
the best of humanity comes
out towards humanity.
>>NOORY: It should.
>>SELF: And it does.
It does.
Now, we're in an odd transition.
And it's an awkward transition.
So should we be helping all
those people from Syria,
the millions of people
who have lost their lives?
Yes, but all of a
sudden, the circumstances
don't allow for my ability
to help other people,
in some cases.
That level is bothering people,
I think, all over the world.
This whole evolving into
this strata of consciousness
of well being.
People are feeling for
other people's pain.
>>NOORY: Well, that's good.
>>SELF: Oh, it's important,
and it's happening.
>>NOORY: Is this
level of consciousness
growing for people?
>>SELF: Absolutely.
So this awakening in this
shift of consciousness
is beginning to
have people begin
to recognize that's not OK.
Now, I may not be
able to do something
about the people in
Syria, but that's
not OK is beginning to be a
vibrational resonance of not so
much good and bad but as
I as a human being living
in the heart, this
is inappropriate
what I'm watching.
Man's inhumanity to man.
>>NOORY: It's horrible.
>>SELF: It is.
But it's changing.
>>NOORY: With some of
these other dimensions,
like the third, fourth,
or fifth, do they change?
What do they contribute?
>>SELF: They all operate--
let's call them a box.
And in the box, like
that third dimension,
is completely conditional.
There's nothing unconditional in
your third dimensional reality.
Now, you live in different
boxes simultaneously.
When you get into that
fourth, you have choice.
Whereas in the third,
you're in reaction.
In the fourth, things
begin to be unconditional.
Love, appreciation begins to
be something that's expressed.
>>NOORY: Jim, Barbara
Hand Clow of course,
the author of "The Alchemy
Of Nine Dimensions"
talks about these
upper dimensions
on Gaia's "Open Minds."
>>BARBARA HAND CLOW: Well, all
of the higher five dimensions,
fifth dimension through
ninth dimension,
penetrate the top of the canopy
and start moving down to 4D.
And then finally, those
impulses and consciousness
that are coming in come down
into us in the third dimension.
So the reason that the
Pleiadians use a person
on a healing table in order
to explain this dynamic
is that they're trying to help
us understand how the lower
dimensions below our
bodies are energizing us
and then how our energy
and thoughts and emotions
are flowing out of us
into the fourth dimension.
Because see, we create
the fourth dimension.
The reason it's a collective
area of consciousness
is because it's coming
from us as humans.
So then once you're into
the fourth dimension,
for most people, what
you're dealing with
is dualities, dark and
light, good and evil.
Because the whole
fourth dimension
is polarized into a
range of potentiality.
And so what we need to
understand as human beings
is that how we handle
the fourth dimension
depends upon our
level of healing
and upon our level
of mental clarity.
So in other words, being able to
deal with the fourth dimension
involves activating our
minds, breaking the paradigms,
getting a hold of
the real truth,
and also processing
our emotional blocks
and our emotional issues.
>>NOORY: Jim, she seems spot on.
>>SELF: Absolutely.
She's saying it
absolutely right.
So one of the things about
this fourth dimension.
It's not a physical realm.
It's a thought realm.
And so it works in a manner
where all the thoughts ever
thought that did not turn
into physical actions
are floating in that
fourth dimensional space.
And so as others have
spoken on your shows,
there is-- let's look at the
fourth dimension as a set
of layers just arbitrarily.
And that first layer is heavy.
It has lots of density.
It drops to the bottom.
Murder, rape, incest,
domination, slavery.
>>NOORY: The worst of the worst.
>>SELF: The worst of the worst.
Up here on the
top, let's just say
eight layers for just
discussion, the butterflies
and the puppy dog licking
the little baby's face
and everybody goes,
oh, that's so nice.
That's the space where if
you look at it, it's lighter.
There's no heaviness.
It flows.
This is one of the
challenges to most of us
in playing in the game
we've coming out of right
now is you can have
fleeting, wonderful thoughts.
But because of the
magnetism of I'm not OK,
we have a tendency to
keep recirculating through
that I'm not OK vibration.
And so it's an
interesting place.
That lower fourth dimension
is really the equivalent
to the biblical hell.
And what I mean by that
is it's interesting
looking at numbers of studies
that have done in prisons where
they basically say,
what is the thing that's
most uncomfortable
in your space here?
And the answer is
going to sleep.
And the reason is if
you think about I hold--
I just murdered somebody
and I'm angry and resentful.
>>NOORY: And you bring that in.
>>SELF: Well, that's my going,
that's my walking around space.
I'm not happy with me.
And I'm angry at them.
Well, when you go to
sleep, you basically--
the etheric body, people
call it the astral body--
>>NOORY: Floats up.
>>SELF: Connects to the physical
body at the acupuncture points.
And so those are little magnets.
And when you say
I'm going to sleep,
the magnets begin to release.
>>NOORY: And the
body releases too.
It hovers, right?
>>SELF: Well, hovers.
And what leaves is the mental,
emotional, the etheric body.
You leave, go into
that sleep space.
But if when you
go to sleep you're
still in anger,
rage, and resentment,
you start to go out.
You are magnetically attracted
fourth dimension astral plane
to all the thoughts ever
thought like where I just
left the body.
>>NOORY: So you put
yourself in your own hell.
>>SELF: Exactly.
You're the creator
of that space.
>>NOORY: How do
you get out of it?
>>SELF: You begin
to like yourself.
Or you do begin to do
something very specific.
And I say this in all of our--
in the book and everything else.
Is when you go to sleep,
if you simply stop and make
a decision, I'm going to
call myself back from my day.
So if I said to you, where did
you leave yourself in your day?
You'll tell me, having lunch.
You'll tell me at the airport.
You'll tell me
just these thoughts
all show up in your space.
That's where you left you.
So simple tool.
Create a gold sun over your
head, and being really simple,
call yourself back.
Just call yourself back.
Collect me up and
then fill me back up.
>>NOORY: Fill you back up.
>>SELF: Really simple.
And make a decision that I want
to go on a different highway
out tonight.
I want to go to the gardens.
I want to play with
the elementals.
I want to play with the angels.
I want to play in beauty.
And as you have that thought
and you're falling asleep,
just like the
neuroplasticity, you
begin to create a
different pathway out
of the body every night.
>>NOORY: How easy is
it for a human being
to put themself in that state?
>>SELF: It's not easy.
It's simple, but simple and
easy aren't the same thing.
So basically, and this is what
mastering alchemy course is all
about for us is how
do you basically
get yourself into present time?
So one of the alignments
that is very valuable
is, again, thoughts
and emotions.
So if I say to you, do you
know what certainty is?
The rational mind goes, oh
yeah, I know what certainly is.
But if I say, close your eyes
and sit back, take a breath,
and feel certain.
That's a very
different alignment.
So if you can begin
to play with words.
And go back to the Bible.
In the beginning was the Word.
But before the
Word, what a word is
is a sound tone, and uttering
a sound vibrational frequency.
So if you could basically
begin to pick a set of words.
Certain, capable, seniority,
present, gracious, happy.
And feel the words.
And then one of
the games we play
is feel certain and
then feel capable.
And they're close.
They're not the same.
But then puts certain and
capable together and maybe
add happy.
And this is where
you begin to play
with the platonic solids
and the geometries
on an energetic level,
not on a physical level.
You begin to create a geometric
field that is required
in physicalness and density.
And so certain, capable,
happy is an alignment,
as an example, that is
structured versus random, just
floating around,
not structured--
>>NOORY: What are
living light bodies?
>>SELF: Now you're
getting into a great part.
So as you basically begin
to structure yourself,
turn on the eye of Horus, begin
to define that's the theater
and I'm fine, you
start to clear away
an awful lot of your baggage.
And that information
begins to be remembered.
And as you play at, this
is an intentional decision,
to evolve, to
ascend, to basically
become fully conscious,
know yourself,
the brain begins to change.
Your access to the eighth,
ninth, 10th chakras
begins to be simply information.
>>NOORY: This is a state we
should all be in, isn't it?
>>SELF: Well, there's no should.
But it is a place that
if you as an individual
are interested in what's this
all about, how does it work,
and there is more.
And most people when
they get into the heart
know there's more.
Then that third dimensional
game of war and punishment
and domination.
As you begin to get
into well being,
as you begin to get into
this fifth dimensional state
of well being,
appreciation, gratitude,
you start to know yourself.
You begin to move
from the rational mind
to the fields of awareness.
We'll call them simply
fourth layer of thought.
You just ask a question and
begin to know the information.
It's in that place
that you start
engaging with the archangelics,
the lords of light.
You start to have a knowing.
And that knowing allows you
to start to have a pathway.
And then in the
mastering alchemy course,
it's the lords of light,
it's the archangelics,
and myself that
have conversations
that are recordable, listen to.
Do this.
What happened?
So when you begin to
turn that light body on,
after the work of knowing
yourself, there's seven layers.
There's seven more
strands of DNA.
Only one of them relates
to the physical body.
The other six relate to
the mental, the emotional,
the causal, the over
soul, all of which
is you beginning
to remember you.
>>NOORY: Are children
more advanced than we are?
>>SELF: Today they are.
>>NOORY: That's what I thought.
>>SELF: These new kids, they
come from many, many places.
See, this shift is
taking us into a place
where the baby boomers
hold the dream of Atlantis.
And there's--
>>NOORY: That's us.
>>SELF: That's us.
We hold the dream.
The ones that are
called the X generations
were the ones that are starting
to facilitate the dream.
And one of the big
unfortunate things happened
was the housing crisis in 2008.
It took out that
whole generation
in terms of their well being.
>>NOORY: And security
and stuff like that.
>>SELF: Security.
But the kids that are coming
in, the millennials and then
the groupings
behind them, they're
all the capacity to
make the Earth the way
it is in well being,
in appropriateness,
a new aspect of consciousness.
>>NOORY: You give webinars,
and you have people sign up
for these webinars.
What's the message
you'd like them to get?
>>SELF: Know yourself.
And here is the tools.
Here's the pathway.
I don't teach a truth.
I don't know what truth is.
I know truth is what's
standing in front of me
at the moment, which is
sometimes changeable.
But in this case, here's a tool.
Try it.
What happens?
Here's how you find the
center of your head.
Here's how you basically
reconfigure those chakras.
Here's how you put
yourself back together.
Most of our webinars are free.
There's a course called
Mastering Alchemy.
But it's about you
beginning to recognize
you can step out
of the experience
of that third dimensional game.
And it's all about you.
It's not about the external
world approving of you.
>>NOORY: Jim, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
Really appreciate it.
>>SELF: My pleasure, George.
>>NOORY: Great advice
for people too, isn't it?
>>SELF: Hopefully
if they can use it.
>>NOORY: Use it, and
just elevate yourself
just a little bit more, and
you'll see your life change.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]